Gradle changes 1.8.20 (#3506)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/gradle/gradle-compilation-and-caches.md

> The new approach to incremental compilation is [Experimental](components-stability.md). It may be dropped or changed at any time.
> Opt-in is required (see the details below). We encourage you to use it only for evaluation purposes, and we would
> appreciate your feedback in [YouTrack](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issues/KT).
>
{type="warning"}

The new approach to incremental compilation is available since Kotlin 1.7.0 for the JVM backend in the Gradle build system only. 
This approach supports changes made inside dependent non-Kotlin modules, includes an improved
compilation avoidance, and is compatible with the [Gradle build cache](#gradle-build-cache-support).
Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, it works by default. This approach supports changes made inside dependent non-Kotlin modules, 
includes an improved compilation avoidance, and is compatible with the [Gradle build cache](#gradle-build-cache-support).

All of these enhancements decrease the number of non-incremental builds, making the overall compilation time faster. 
You will receive the most benefit if you use the build cache, or, frequently make changes in non-Kotlin
Gradle modules.

> To enable this new approach, set the following option in your `gradle.properties`:

Author: I like the idea. Probably, we'll rework this section about IC entirely and won't mention the "new approach" anymore when it starts being impossible to turn it off.

Starting with Kotlin 1.8.20, you can enable precise backup, whereby only those classes that Kotlin recompiles in 
the incremental compilation will be backed up. Both full and precise backups help to run builds incrementally again 

> after compilation errors or compiler failures. Precise backup also saves build time compared to full backup. 

Reviewer: > compiler failures

I propose to remove it. Usually on recompilation compiler failure will happen again and could not be fixed by user.

Author: Should we remove it from What's new too, probably?

Reviewer: I would say yes

Full backup may take **noticeable** build time in large projects or if many tasks are making backups, 
especially if a project is located on a slow HDD.

> This optimization is Experimental. You can enable it by adding the `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This optimization is Experimental. You can enable it by adding the `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup=true` 
```

### A new approach to incremental compilation

The new approach to incremental compilation is available since Kotlin 1.7.0 for the JVM backend in the Gradle build system only. 

> Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, it works by default. This approach supports changes made inside dependent non-Kotlin modules, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from Kotlin 1.8.20, this is enabled by default. This approach supports changes made inside dependent non-Kotlin modules, 
```

Author: Passive... But ok)

includes an improved compilation avoidance, and is compatible with the [Gradle build cache](#gradle-build-cache-support).

All of these enhancements decrease the number of non-incremental builds, making the overall compilation time faster. 
You will receive the most benefit if you use the build cache, or, frequently make changes in non-Kotlin
Gradle modules.

To opt-out from this new approach, set the following option in your `gradle.properties`:

```none
kotlin.incremental.useClasspathSnapshot=false
```

> We'd appreciate your feedback on this feature in [YouTrack](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-49682).

Reviewer 2: As per another comment I made recently on another PR, maybe this should be removed so we only ask for feedback in the what's new?

Learn how the new approach to incremental compilation is implemented under the hood in
[this blog post](https://blog.jetbrains.com/kotlin/2022/07/a-new-approach-to-incremental-compilation-in-kotlin/).

### Precise backup of compilation tasks' outputs

> Precise backup of compilation tasks' outputs is [Experimental](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained).

> > We would appreciate your feedback on it in [YouTrack](https://kotl.in/issue/experimental-ic-optimizations).

Reviewer 2: Same as my last comment about what's new :)

>
{type="warning"}

Starting with Kotlin 1.8.20, you can enable precise backup, whereby only those classes that Kotlin recompiles in 
the incremental compilation will be backed up. Both full and precise backups help to run builds incrementally again 

> after compilation errors. Precise backup also saves build time compared to full backup. 

Author: Copyeditors deleted all articles from backups I put initially)

Full backup may take **noticeable** build time in large projects or if many tasks are making backups, 
especially if a project is located on a slow HDD.

This optimization is Experimental. You can enable it by adding the `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup` 
Gradle property to the `gradle.properties` file:

> `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup=true`

Reviewer 2: Maybe put this in a note?

Author: Sure, I missed it!

Author: I noticed that I missed the correct formatting:
```
```none
kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup=true```
```

On the whole, I think that we usually write how to enable sth not in the "note" format but as an ordinary text.

Reviewer 2: I see there is a warning at the top already about it being Experimental so I've changed my mind about the note! But maybe we should avoid repeating the sentence about it being Experimental both in the warning and here by modifying it slightly:
```
As this optimization is Experimental, to use it you have to enable it by adding the `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup` 
```
Or you could just remove the sentence about it being Experimental entirely and just have:
```
To enable it, add the `kotlin.compiler.preciseCompilationResultsBackup` 
Gradle property to the `gradle.properties` file:
```
Or something similar 😃

> #### Example of precise backup usage at JetBrains {initial-collapse-state="collapsed"}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example of using precise backup at JetBrains {initial-collapse-state="collapsed"}
```

> In the following chart, you can see an example of precise backup usage compared to full backup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following charts, you can see examples of using precise backup compared to full backup:
```

> In the following chart, you can see an example of precise backup usage compared to full backup:

Reviewer 2: What does the y axis of these charts represent? Is it build time for KGP and then Space?

Author: > Is it build time for KGP and then Space?

Yes, it is. But it's not for the whole project, it's for the build's subgraph: a module with changes is rebuilt + all other modules that depend on this module.

<img src="comparison-of-full-and-precise-backups.png" alt="Comparison of full and precise backups" width="700"/>

> The first and second charts show how precise backup in the Kotlin project affects building the Kotlin Gradle plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first and second charts show how using precise backup in a Kotlin project affects building the Kotlin Gradle plugin:
```

> 1. After making a small [ABI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) change – adding a new public 
> method – to a module that lots of modules depend on.
> 2. After making a small non-ABI change – adding a private function – to a module that no other modules depend on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. After making a small [ABI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) change: adding a new public method to a module that lots of modules depend on.
2. After making a small non-ABI change: adding a private function to a module that no other modules depend on.
```

   
The third chart shows how precise backup in the [Space](https://www.jetbrains.com/space/) project affects building a web 

> frontend after a small non-ABI change – adding a private function – to a Kotlin/JS module that lots of modules depend on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
frontend after a small non-ABI change: adding a private function to a Kotlin/JS module that lots of modules depend on.
```

> These measurements were performed on a computer with the Apple M1 Max CPU; different computers will yield slightly 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These measurements were performed on a computer with an Apple M1 Max CPU; different computers will yield slightly 
```

different results. The factors affecting performance include but are not limited to:

* How warm the [Kotlin daemon](#the-kotlin-daemon-and-how-to-use-it-with-gradle) 
  and the [Gradle daemon](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_daemon.html) are.
* How fast or slow the disk is.
* The CPU model and how busy it is.
* Which modules are affected by the changes and how big these modules are.
* Whether the changes are ABI or non-ABI.

#### Evaluating optimizations with build reports {initial-collapse-state="collapsed"}

To estimate the impact of the optimization on your computer for your project and your scenarios, you can use 
[Kotlin build reports](#build-reports). Enable reports in the text file format by adding the following property 
to your `gradle.properties` file:

```
kotlin.build.report.output=file
```

Here is an example of a relevant part of the report before enabling precise backup:

```
Task ':kotlin-gradle-plugin:compileCommonKotlin' finished in 0.59 s
<...>
Time metrics:
 Total Gradle task time: 0.59 s
 Task action before worker execution: 0.24 s
  Backup output: 0.22 s // Pay attention to this number 
<...>
```

> And here is an example of a relevant part of the report after enabling precise backup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And here is an example of a relevant part of the report **after** enabling precise backup:
```

# Optional. Output directory for file-based reports. Default: build/reports/kotlin-build/
kotlin.build.report.file.output_dir=kotlin-reports

# Optional. Label for marking your build report (for example, debug parameters)
kotlin.build.report.label=some_label
```

Options, applicable only to HTTP:

```none
# Mandatory. Where to post HTTP(S)-based reports
kotlin.build.report.http.url=http://127.0.0.1:8080

# Optional. User and password if the HTTP endpoint requires authentication
kotlin.build.report.http.user=someUser
kotlin.build.report.http.password=somePassword

# Optional. Add a Git branch name of a build to a build report
kotlin.build.report.http.include_git_branch.name=true|false

# Optional. Add compiler arguments to a build report

> # If a project contains many modules, its compiler arguments in the report can be very heavy and pretty useless

Reviewer 2: Just wondering what you mean by pretty useless? Do they make the report too verbose?

Reviewer 2: 😄 Then maybe we could say "and not that helpful" instead? "Pretty useless" is a bit too informal and sounds very negative.
